<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
      xmlns:c="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/core"
      xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui"
      xmlns:sec="http://www.springframework.org/security/facelets/tags">
    <h:head>
        <title>Spring Security with JSF Demo</title>
    </h:head>
    <h:body style="background-color: antiquewhite;">
        <h3>About this JSF Web App With Spring Security Demo</h3>
        <p>This is a special branch of the jsfsecure demo project that
        demonstrates security the same way as previously shown, but this time
        uses the Spring Framework to simplify and enhance security configuration
        and the options you have for using it. In particular please take
        note of these important differences compared to the original demo:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><b>No Jdbc Realm is needed on the server:</b> Spring controls
            everything so you don't need to configure the server in any way
            other than to provide a connection pool and jdbc resource. And if
            we wanted to, we coujld even do that in Spring. See the
            "applicationContext.xml" file in Other Sources</li>
            
            <li><b>SHA-512 Plus Salt:</b> With the standard Glassfish Jdbc Realm 
            configuration you could only choose between MD5 (very weak) and
            SHA-256 (better, but not great). Now with Spring we can choose
            SHA-512 (much stronger). Plus, before you couldn't add a salt to 
            your password hash. Now you can with Spring. See the new 
            ShaHashGeneratorApp.java and how we configure SHA-512 and the 
            salt in applicationContext.xml</li>
            
            <li><b>Expansion:</b> When hashing passwords for database storage 
            one must consider the advanced techniques that hackers use to 
            break in to things using other people's stolen passwords. Just
            using a hashed password, even with SHA-512, is not enough. A brute
            force dictionary attack can solve that problem. And adding a 
            salt value, which Spring can and does do, whereas Glassfish does
            not, is better, but still not fool proof. An additional security
            step is to use a technique called "expansion" which basically 
            re-hashes the hash over and over again. In applicationContext.xml
            you can see that we've used the "iteration" property of the 
            encoder bean to do this. Again, no support is provided by Glassfish
            so Spring comes to our rescue again!</li>
            
            <li><b>No security configuration needed in web.xml or glassfish-web.xml:</b> 
            With Spring these tedious steps are not necessary. However, we
            do need to configure Spring in web.xml. Also, for debugging purposes
            we configured a LoginErrorPhaseListener in faces-config.xml.</li>
            
            <li><b>Your choice of destination from login page:</b> Using a
            custom "LoginBean" we can now direct visitors to any page, even
            the same page, after logging in.</li>
            
            <li><b>We've Switched to j_spring_security_check:</b> Just a small
                change from j_security_check in previous demo</li>
            
            <li><b>New Spring Security Namespace for view: </b>Take a look at
            pages like users/index.xhtml. What you will see is a new Spring
            security namespace being used that lets is use JSTL to check and
            see if a user is still logged in. We also show you how to get 
            the user's loggin name.</li>
            <li><b>Misc. Utilities: </b>Unrelated to security we've added some
                additional utilities to help you. Look at "FacesUtils.java" 
                and "RegexpUtils.java"</li>
            <li><b>Logging support with Logback:</b> Lastly we've added a
                state-of-the-art logging utility by Logback. See sample
                bean classes for examples of use, but basically this replaces
                System.out.println() statements and lets you direct output
                to multiple locations, with advanced features like creating
                log files, zipped log files and rotating log files. See
                the file logback.xml and the dependency added to the pom.xml.
                Then research the tool on your own.
            </li>
            <li><b>Database Changes:</b> You will need to drop and re-create
                your jdbcrealm database. Spring uses different tables and
                fields. The users table now has an "enabled" column that
                Spring requires. This also let's you disable an account by
                setting the value to 0 (zero). Spring also needs an 
                "authorities" table instead of a group table. And the
                authorities have new names -- ROLE_ADMIN an ROLE_USER. You
                can create any role you want using the syntax "ROLE_XXXX".
                Be sure to modify the associated applicationContext.xml and
                related files. And don't forget to create your hashed 
                passwords and replace the plain text versions in the users
                table</li>
        </ul>
        <h3>Let's Start the Demo. Select where you want to go:</h3>
        <p>Note that in the address bar of your web browser the protocol will
            change from "http:" to "https:" indicating that the data flow is 
            being encrypted by SSL.</p>
        <p><h:link outcome="admin/index" value="To the admin section" /></p>
        <ul>
            <li>Username, password: bob, password1</li>
        </ul>
        <p><h:link outcome="users/index" value="To the user section" /></p>
        <ul>
            <li>Username, password: sally, password2</li>
            <li>Username, password: tom, password3</li>
        </ul>

        <h3>Logging Out of the Application</h3>
        <p>A well designed web app must provide a convenient way for users to
            log out, so that their account can not be used by someone else
            with access to their computer.</p>
        <p>
            <c:if test="#{sec:isAuthenticated()}">
                <p>Logged in as: #{request.userPrincipal.name}<br/>
                <a href="/jsfsecure/j_spring_security_logout">Just Log Me Out</a>
                </p>
            </c:if>
        </p>        
    </h:body>
</html>

